do you want to learn how to steal your
competition's traffic on google
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and host the top 100 b2b marketing
podcast business growth show and if you
haven't done so yet check out my weekly
email where i'm sharing actual website
and marketing tips useful podcasts free
goodies resources and more to kick off
your week with a bang why not give it a
try over at business
businessgrowth.email so this is a
slightly controversial strategy i often
see it used by sas software as a service
companies in the b2b space
it's often recommended for companies
that want to hit the market fairly
quickly and capture some traffic some
potential sales leads for companies that
are perhaps a bit more established than
themselves that have already built up a
bit of brand and it involves checking
out
organic positions through seo on the
organic search results on google and
then building out google ads so let's
jump straight into it so let's give an
example let's say for example you
provide crm perhaps you provide crm
specifically for financial companies so
you want to search a bunch of terms a
bunch of keywords that are going to be
relevant and related to that product so
you might search things like
best finance crm or crm company for
finance or
financial crm provider or finance crm
agency or a bunch of keywords that are
super relevant what we call fairly high
intent and long tail keywords that
someone might type in if they actually
want to inquire about your offering so
do that a bunch of times and see which
companies are consistently page one
ideally top of page one on the organic
search results
make a list so open up a word doc or a
google doc and make a list of the
companies that are consistently high for
these juicy search terms that you want
to rank for that's the first step
once you have made your detailed list on
your google sheet word doc whatever it
might be of the brands that are
consistently high
on organic search for the main products
or services relevant to what you do
those juicy search terms that you want
to get sales leads inquiries and deals
over the line for you need to fire up a
google adwords account and you'll need
to enter in those brands that we made
the list of and then we'll need to
create some titles and ad copy for our
google ads that we want to appear for
those branded searches one thing to bear
in mind is for legal issues you want to
be careful so try avoiding putting in
those competitive brands directly
because you don't want them going after
you or their legal teams so what you can
do instead is use titles like let's go
with our finance crm example you might
want to put finance crm compare before
you buy or alternative finance crm or
see what other finance crms are on the
market so basically trying to stop
pre-peeling their tracks because they've
searched for this competitor brand
directly but we want to stop the last
hurdle so they might say look i'll go to
the competitor but i'll also check the
brand i was going to anyway so basically
looking for that last click where
they've got a brand in mind but they
might think let's see what else is
available and then they click through to
your site because the chances are that
competitive brand because they're
ranking well on seo consistently they're
probably doing a fair bit of other
marketing and advertising so basically
trying to steal the demand that they've
built up to get people to click through
to our ad by enticing them with the
comparison option and then from there
ideally you want to send them to a
dedicated landing page that landing page
might clearly show the value proposition
you bring to the table it might talk
about the problems that your solution
your offering fixes it's probably going
to have some social proofs some
testimonials some video reviews some
logos that you work with and of course a
clear call to action
to get people to get a trial or sign up
or leave their details whatever you want
to do or maybe it's got a form directly
on the page for people to leave their
details to request a demo or request a
callback depending on what you want
people to do
so why does this method work well this
method is pretty effective
if you are a fairly new
company if you're a startup company
because you're basically going after
brands that you can see top of google
search organically for most the main
search terms most of the main keywords
relevant to what you do so the chances
are like you said earlier they're
probably doing a lot of other marketing
and advertising their brand has probably
built up
a fair bit of demand over the years so
people often type in directly their
company name so we're looking to capture
a percentage of that audience and think
of it from your own perspective
especially in the b2b market most
companies most vendors most clients will
compare their options so most people are
looking to compare two to three maybe
more agencies or companies or providers
depending on what you do before they
make a decision especially in bigger
larger ticket sales they've got to bring
two or three vendors to their boards
they can compare the options compare the
features the benefits the pricing how
well that solution fits their needs so
you're getting in at the last minute
with your ad to try and entice someone
to say look see what else is on the
market compare your options see what we
can bring to the table and then your
landing page that they drive to needs to
reinforce those problems you fix those
benefits and then drive someone to
convert and there you have it that is
how you can steal your competitors
traffic by bidding on branded terms
wisely what you'll find is that this
actually can be quite a cost-effective
route as going for branded search terms
on google ads is often a lot less
expensive a lot less cost per click than
going for non-branded searches so things
like in the finance crm space crm for
finance companies finance crm best
finance crm etc so it can be quite cost
effective just make sure you're bidding
on your own company name your own brand
name as well because your competition
might be trying to do the same thing to
you so make sure you've got that secured
and the other thing to bear in mind is
that there is rarely a silver bullet
when it comes to marketing so make sure
this is part of your overall marketing
mix you're not just solely relying on
this channel but you have other channels
in place so if you're in the b2b space
maybe you're running seo maybe you're
running review sites maybe you're
running a podcast email list social
media and social ads etc so it's just
one piece of the puzzle that's going to
build up your brand build up your
website traffic and drive inbound leads
your way as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick subscribe on
youtube or rating on the audio podcast
is much appreciated and with that i
shall catch you on the next one cheers